---
published: true
title: Living
layout: post
---
A small detour for up-to-date events.

I am not exactly a concert guy. Not that I do not like going out for some great gigs and joining the overwhelming upstream of crowds disposition, I just do not go too often. There was one really important and totally mind-blowing concert in my life, though - Depeche Mode Delta Machine in 2013 - but that was a dream of a huge fan come true. Last night I went to Park Live, day 2, festival, with John Newman, Passenger, Two Door Cinema Club, all of which were awesome in a different way, and Lana Del Rey as a headliner. To add some irony, I went there with Lana who's a huge fan of Lana Del Rey, so I was tricked into some Lanception, with all the crowd crying out loud "Lana we love you" and occasionally falling inconscious. Lagnificient, isn't it?

The fest was held at the Spartak Stadium - or to pay dues to the sponsors, Otkrytie Bank Arena, - which is north-west of the city centre. The place is brand new, even an underground station was brought out of the conservation status and opened for the public. Security was tight and organization was quite decent - I didn't experience any problems, like none whatsoever (prices high as they ran from the weed clinic on every single bit of dust are not included in the list - common thing). There were quite a few other activities - we played table tennis and visited a photobooth, both were free, by the way. There were also segways for rent, gomacks, electra's and other hipster stuff I fond. Really, things seem to be improving.

The concert started a few mins late. The stadium was half-full, surprising me. John Newman, who was the first to perform, looked surprised too. Despite that he did his best and managed to ignite the party by the very end. He constanly said he was sorry for being a little ill - might be, he actually was. Then there was Passenger, a brit guy known for the song Let Her Go. He was a company guy, playing with audience, being honest, simple and cheerful, cracking up jokes and drinking apple juice. The songs were kind of depressing, a good choice given Lana as a headliner. As he was leaving, people really were missing him. And then there was Two Door Cinema Club. Some action at last - thhe beat, the drums, the electro-part were just thrilling and injecting excitement from the very first seconds. In contrast with Passenger, the singer acted so grey and uninterested in his listeners I wish he never started talking. Besides every single song was so horrificly similar to each other that gaining such an audience can be considered a miracle. They were good, though. Just all the same.

And then, Lana came out. Most of you probably heard of her - melancholic, fragile, pale brunnette, missing her beloved California and repainting teenage dreams who leave their childhood days behind. Lana managed to create a powerful concept - a character she impersonates is someone you probably know and someone you can't ignore. Some girl you met a party, you found her cute and maybe you spent a few hours togethers, resulting in some special - most likely complicated - relationship, all which sprayed with perfrume of youth and freedom? Exactly the type. She brings that to her songs and and she brought that to this concert. That is why it was so rife with nostalgia - she took a bit from hew new album Honeymoon, and didn't forget about some old things and her killing hit, Summertime Sadness. I personally wished she sang Dark Paradise, or at least, Salvatore - but I guess me and Lana just don't go that close. In my case, relationships with that kind turned more complicated than special. Nevertheless, it was beautiful, passionate and recklessly soul-undressing - totally worth it.

Thanks for that, people! If you ever read this, July, 10 at Moscow was absolutely great and I hope to see you again!