---
published: true
title: Desert
layout: post
---
So the summer is finally about to come to its end.

I mean - certainly, I wish there would be more days in it. On one hand, it was not that bad. I traveled to China, I graduated from MGIMO and, well, I gained a little bit more clearness about my career. Thing is, it was yet another devastating season. I wasn't working all day, but gosh this uncertainty and insecurity just gets to you sometimes. 

I didn't manage to enroll in Masters programme on a budget basis - that is, more years of paying for this educational stuff. Not that I didn't try, not that I didn't work hard to the bone - I got 95 on FinEcon at least to prove some point - but the total result just wasn't good enough. Again. At this point you just gasp into the air and recall Homer's (the Simpson one) rhetorical comment - no matter how hard you try, there is always someone better than you. Or closer to the management, I don't know. Stuff just gets you down and you think you are powerless. Lady luck just weazles around.

I am desperately looking for a job. Tomorrow I got an interview over at one hotel business company, for a position of attracting of finance. That's it, so far. I've got like a bunch of applications for other positions and they just hang there. Sometimes HRs look them through and ignore them but mostly - nothing. That is some good old-fashioned "diploma gets you an instant job" thing. I hope I am just being a whiner.

And worst of it, I am just bored. Seriously. I've got nothing to do, but I wish I had. Badly. I want a damn job, with all that salary stuff and development and fulfillment and experience and blah-blah-blah. I want university year to begin. I want to leave home at 8 am and return at 11 pm - that's how the things are. I want studies, I want to prepare for some huge exams or events and all that. The last weeks are just ridiculous, senseless, stupid.

I do hope I would laugh at myself soon. 