---
published: true
title: Seaside and delicacy, pt I
layout: post
tags: [travel, china, guangzhou, chinese, ]
categories: [travel]
---
I am very sorrry for leaving the blog unattended for a while. However, I've got no lame excuse - the infamous Great Chinese Flowerwall is up and running, stumping on every attempt to work with practically any website. Not that it was unavailable - the connection speed was so low that you would think your request signed up for a marathon. After waiting for a page to load for about half an hour, frankly, I gave up. Short technical notice: this occurs to most of the web, even with VPN on, except for Chinese pages. Facebook, Instagram and YouTube are reachable and even usable with some patience. WeChat and Baidu fly, Telegram seems to be unstable.

Notwithstanding these issues - or, more likely, thanks to them -  I had an outstanding, wonderful trip and returned home safely. Thanks to Lana, my girlfriend, I had the best guide a tourist in this land can have. Even though the city of Guangzhou gave its best shot to ruin the impression, I am certain that China is a great place to visit, to explore and to experience. Here are a few reasons why, in the order as they occurred.

It all began from the first day. Ridiculous as it is, my flight to Guangzhou was delayed, making it a third time in a row when my plane just couldn't make it in time. China Southern was very upset - and so were th passengers - so they gave every single ticket holder a 600RUB compensation voucher to spend in the airport's shops and restaurants. Some might oppose this is a small make-it-up-for, however, given the prices in the so called duty free zone are certainly way above any duties, I couldn't help my joy and spent all of it at TGIF on BBQ ribs. At that moment I thought those were one of the best dished I ever got to taste. Boy I was wrong.

The plane arrived at last. The passengers, most of them Chinese, happily flowed to the fuselage and after a hectic carry-on packing descended on their designated seats. Yet the party was just about to begin. I dealt with my stuff rather quickly - I prefer it light when it comes to travelling. The Chinese, however, are very, very loud, talkative and restless. Please note I didn't say noisy. It looked more like I took a wrong plane and instead of a trip to Guangzhou I found myself on a field trip. All of them were very excited, moving around the plane, retrieveing theit carry-on and putting it back. Traditional Chinese music in the background served as a perfect soundtrack to this crazy yet rather funny picture. It all turned peaceful when the plane started to taxi his way to the runway and industrious - and quite excellent at their job, too - stewards verbally fastened them. It could sound like the plane was military, but it wasn't. Trust me - I felt nothing but hospitality on board.

The journey itself was nine hours long. That's just four hours short of Moscow - Washington flight and somewhat four hours more than Moscow - Irkutsk trip. No inconveniences on the way, except for almost freezing to death because of an air-conditioning. Seemed like I was the only unexperienced guy on this birds, since the rest had some jackets to put on. The blankets were provided, however, they were not enough. 

Upon arriving in Guagnzhou I managed to connect to a local Wi-Fi spot and send my whereabouts to Lana who was to meet me there. We found each other quickly - and that was the last good thing this city could provide. We took a subway to the railroad station where all the tickets were sold out. Between a taxi and a carshare with a couple of Chinese folk we opted for the latter. This was in the name of authentic experience, I guess. Chinese folk call foreigners 'laowai', a concept slightly disdainful. Not that Chinese do not like foreigners - they just look at you like you just dropped from the spaceship. In the place, where practically everyone is a short dark-skin brunnet, a tall pale blonde guy stands out of the crowd even more. By looking at you like you are an alien I mean that they will literally convey you with their eyes as you pass them, they'll try to take seilfies with you and even talk to you in horrible - in most cases - English. It might boost your self esteem at first, but with time you will really start hating this. Now imagine taking a ride with the Chinese to Shenzhen. Yes, they were same loud and crazy. Eventually they fell asleep - we arrived in the late evening, but before that WeChat notifications were our own radio.

This was just the first day, however, a day supposed to be lond and tiring. I already mentioned that Guangzhou brought more trouble than joy, but thankfully it was just a transit. My point of destination was Shenzhen, a city totally different. I will devote more time to it in the next posts, probably tomorrow.
A few words ahead: simply wonderful.

China changed my perception of Asia.