---
published: true
title: Seaside and delicacy, pt II
layout: post
---
Somewhat about eight in the evening we arrived in Shenzhen.

The driver dropped us by the main trainstation, exactly we were supposed to be if there were train tickets. One of the things you should know about trainstations in China is that they are easy to mix up with the airports - huge, wide and consuming a lot of space. Finding a subway there was yet another challnege, though luckily we dealt with that rather quickly.

Subway in Shenzhen or in Guangzhou is different from the Moscow one. It is very modern, quiet, air-conditioned - like anything in that country. The trains are clean and large, though not too comfortable: the seats are metal and there is only one handrail to hang on. One interesting point is that a solid glass wall separates the platofrm and the railroad itself so there is zero chance of someone falling onto the lane. Of course there are doors which meet with the train doors when it arrives, and the matching is just perfect. There are flaws, too - the whole system itself is not exactly social - one has to pay for a distance rather than for entering a subway, as in Moscow. That is, if you travel across the whole city, ticket's price goes up 7 yuan and more (somewhat about 70 rub). A lot of people complain about horrible behaviour in Moscow underground, for example, when people who enter the car block the way to those trying to exit it, or when nobody vacants his seat for the elders. In China they even mark the area of queues, yet nobody takes it seiously - people just go with a principle "if the space is empty, I must fill it". Nobody gives priorities to the elders or women or whoever, unless disabled. Somebody told me that is because of the eastern respect for the elders - if you stand up so he can sit that means you treat him as a weak person, which is disrespectful. A little wild for us, yet that's how they roll.

I lived in the distict called Xili. It was in the west of the city and it was... well, I did not know what that was. It was no downtown, no uptown, no tourist area, no living quarters. A few minutes away there was student's dormitory and a university as well, so I guess it was... students' hangout place? Lots of typical Chinese small noodles places, cafes, sushi bars, mini-shops, hotels etc. held this area for good. I would totally give it some time for another post on Chinese cuisine because it deserved one. Until that, let's stick to Shenzhen and surounding area.

Shenzhen is a new city. In 2015, it celebrated its... 35th birthday. Something which started as an experiment within Chinese economic structure, flourished across the seaside and mountains at an impressive pace. One might argue - certainly one can build crappy barracks fast and wide. If you think so, you know nothing about Shenzhen. The city is so thrilling and so lively, so vivid and so modern, from its scyscrapers in downtown - wish I could compare it to LA skyline - to its touristic tranquille seaside area - again, I'd like to visit LA beach to see both of them together, because I think they might look alike. Shenzhen's got it all - great music hall with classical concerts, modern and enormous libraries, universities with all the infrastructure and tools for the students of all kinds - you literally can create a 3D movie there, they've got it all and you can use that! Everything in the city cries of huge plans and commitment to their realization. They do not stop - they just cannot. Note that it is not Hong Kong - which is entirely independent in its economic acts and as a result turned into an asian NYC - Shenzhen exists within Chinese mainland law with some exemptions. There are a lot of young people in Shenzhen, not only students. Real estate is expensive, though - no surprise given the wonders taking place here.

Lana took me quite a number of places - there was no way we could see them all. One of them was a small mountain practically in the centre of Shenzhen. There is a traditon that every Chinese must climb up the mountain - so as he can be called "a good Chinese". So did we. The mountain was no wilderness - in fact, it is turned into a park, with all roads paved, information desks, litter bins etc - and with some effort we conquered the peak. Up there was an observation deck and a monument to the city founder, Deng Xiaoping. He seemed to be quite popular here, and in fact, I was not suprised, looking at large, prosperous city spreading across. In fact, I wish we could create or build something great as well.

That's it for now! I'll tell more about traffic and actual seaside and delicacies in the next post, including noodles, out-of-different-world fish and "google ice cream".

P.S. I do not have a lot of time now to make this blog more interactive - I think, commenting would be a good thing - so if you have anything to say, contact me at VK (https://new.vk.com/flowerwall) or at Telegram (@mijnnaamiswlad)! I will be glad to hear your feedback. 

See you soon!